it's the weather extreme video the
afternoon edition for Monday evening on
James span very cold air coming in here
Wednesday rain tomorrow night hey what
about the chance of snow early Wednesday
picking up little buzz about that models
are interesting let's go in there and
take a look at all the possibilities
will start with the way things look this
afternoon and they look pretty good that
is the sky cam shot coming from Hamilton
High School up in Marion County sunshine
through high clouds very similar scene
down at fultondale in the other part of
Birmingham the sky there mostly sunny
and again high clouds around on the
alabama gulf coasts and filtered
sunshine but the skies generally cloudy
at Gulf Shores pretty big range across
the state we got low 50s up in the
Tennessee Valley around here Tuscaloosa
Birmingham aniston Gadsden mostly low
60s and down south 70 at Montgomery and
Auburn it mid afternoon but up north it
is getting very cold again and we're
going to feel that Wednesday will be
much much colder up on the watch morning
map relatively quiet around the nation
few winter weather advisories up north
and that's about it thank goodness this
is the expected rain through Saturday
evening rain amounts of about one-half
inch for the northern counties heavier
totals down to the south and hey this is
interesting this is the chance of
greater than one inch of snow and
understand greater than one inch and
this is from noon tomorrow until noon
Wednesday kind of hinting that parts of
North Mississippi perhaps have higher
possibilities of that but there's
low-end possibilities here and look at
this this is the buff kit analysis data
and the morning run the twelves Iran of
the GFS that thing is printing two and a
half inches of snow at Birmingham makes
you want to slap your mama looking at
that but that is an outlier most
guidance has no snow or no accumulating
snow I'll just have just a little bit so
we're going to explore that as we go
along here let's take a look at the gfs
this is the 12-0 run valid at noon
tomorrow and you can see how ridging is
beginning to build over the west and
troughing over the east wrong
you comin down toward the Great Lakes
and down below that during the day
tomorrow the sky should be mostly cloudy
and there could be some scattered light
rain about I think we need to mention
that I there's not much showing up here
but some runs especially the namm have
been more aggressive in suggesting maybe
some light rain during the day so just
keep in mind that is a possibility now
this is tomorrow night at midnight and
you kind of see what's happening rain is
increasing west of the state that will
be moving in here after midnight
tomorrow night a new look at this this
is wednesday morning at six o'clock and
this is showing rain basically from i-20
south snow from i-20 north and then by
noon on wednesday everything is pretty
much shut down and you can see that
things are winding down and obviously
it's noticeably colder on Wednesday as
temperatures will struggle to reach the
40 degree mark around here all right
this is the snow projection from the GFS
and it's got the potential for maybe an
inch or so from Birmingham north again
it seems like the line there would be
about Vernon so maybe the northern
suburbs of Birmingham to anniston so the
GFS is kind of getting aggressive with a
chance of maybe a light accumulation
here Wednesday morning well look at the
European and it is suggesting light
amounts of under one-half inch that's
just maybe of getting a little bit on
the grass the RPM for the fun of it
shows absolutely nothing no snow
accumulation at all and this is the name
ballot at six o'clock Wednesday morning
it's got that surface freeze line
running from near Hamilton to cullman to
just north of gadsden up around
collinsville and up into northern
Cherokee County with an all rain down to
the south of that so it's that's going
to be a really hard call I think no
doubt we have to mention some chance of
rain changing to snow early Wednesday
morning before ending and I do think
we'll need to mention maybe some light
accumulation especially north of
Birmingham
but surface temperatures you can see
there you know we should be 34-35 down
here obviously it's not going to be 19
degrees like january twenty eighth I'd
say the prospects of major problems look
low but this is obviously a situation to
watch and will fine-tune this carefully
tomorrow as we get closer to this so yes
maybe some light snow before this all
ends Wednesday morning maybe some light
accumulation in the grass but for now we
will kind of leave it at that and again
during the day Wednesday much colder
actually the models have come in a tad
warmer which is good both the models are
printing 45 for the high and there's the
snow cover north of the state is not as
extensive as it was you know a few weeks
ago so maybe we can reach the low 40s
and the sky will gradually clear this
Thursday and Thursday mornings going to
be our coldest morning the low should be
around 20 here's a look at the buff kit
analysis you can see Thursday morning we
bottomed out between 20 and 25 I still
think the colder valleys easily see
teens if the wind can go calm and it
should and after that we warm right up
nicely and that's the good thing you
know temperatures they turn sharply
colder late in the season but they tend
to rebound pretty quickly this is Friday
the sky there should be mostly sunny
high would be in the 50s Saturday as we
start the weekend big trough in the
western states out west and if this is
right the day would be pretty dry maybe
clouds increasing I'd say a mix of Sun
and clouds but there's no dynamic
forcing for rain we note very cold air
North office 1050 millibar high sitting
over the Dakotas but the upper air winds
will kind of keep the bulk of that North
office of Saturday if this is right
would be a mostly dry day a mix of Sun
and clouds the high in the upper 50s and
this is Sunday a same thing that looks
dry the high should be around 60 a a big
rain event breaks out west of the state
and a week from today got a surface low
north of here over Kentucky with a
trailing front and a band of showers and
maybe some thunder doesn't exactly look
like a severe weather threat but they
will watch that as we get closer so
again that's weather for the next seven
days i'll check the end of the forecast
on March twelfth troughing off to the
west deep surface low developed
on the plains of Colorado with
thunderstorms and again a radically
different you know this morning we
showed you look out here with very very
cold air and a deep trough will as
expected that's gone and we look for
consistency out here and there's not
much right now that's it for the weather
extreme video today we'll have notes in
the blog next video here by seven
o'clock tomorrow morning if you can
catch us on ABC 3340 news this evening
on the live stream of the television
side at four five six and ten thanks for
watching have a wonderful evening and
God bless